---
title: Publication
summary: 
date: "2018-06-28T00:00:00Z"

reading_time: false  # Show estimated reading time?
share: false  # Show social sharing links?
profile: false  # Show author profile?
comments: false  # Show comments?

# Optional header image (relative to `assets/media/` folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
---

Peer-reviewed publications

1. Shakoor, A., Tiwari, P., Wright‐Osment, N., Kusai, N. A., Sihi, D., Davidson, E. A., ... & Pendall, E. (2026). Improving prediction of heterotrophic respiration in response to altered precipitation. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 131(2), e2025JG009411. https://doi.org/10.1029/2025JG009411
2. Rogers, C. W., Thurgood, G., Dari, B., Sihi, D., & Marshall, J. M. (2025). Barley, corn, and wheat residue decomposition as affected by tillage and nitrogen rate in semi‐arid conditions. Agrosystems, Geosciences & Environment, 8(4), e70229. https://doi.org/10.1002/agg2.70229
3. Du, Y., Mohan, J., Frankson, P., Franke, G., Chen, Z., & Sihi, D. (2025). Decoding the hidden mechanisms of soil carbon cycling in response to climate change in a substrate-limited forested ecosystem. Biogeochemistry, 168(5), 74. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10533-025-01265-0
4. Maas, E. D. V. L., & Sihi, D. (2025). Management alternatives for climate‐smart agriculture at two long‐term agricultural research sites in the United States: A model ensemble case study. Agronomy Journal, 117(5), e70146. https://doi.org/10.1002/agj2.70146
5. Sihi, D., Voruganti, S. R., Ghosh, P., & Dari, B. (2026). Regenerative agriculture's effects on soils and greenhouse gas emissions. In Encyclopedia of Agriculture and Food Systems (Third Edition) (pp. 391-414). Academic Press. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-443-15976-3.00091-X
6. Kane, J. L., Reed, K. M., Dijkstra, P., Schwartz, E., Leshyk, V. O., Hungate, B. A., ... & Sihi, D. (2025). Advances in stable isotope profling (SIP) techniques to track plant–microbial interactions. In Measuring and assessing the biological health of soils (pp. 157-194). Burleigh Dodds Science Publishing, Cambridge, UK. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.19103/AS.2025.0159.07
7. Wang, Z., Kumar, J., Weintraub‐Leff, S. R., Todd‐Brown, K., Mishra, U., & Sihi, D. (2024). Upscaling soil organic carbon measurements at the continental scale using multivariate clustering analysis and machine learning. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 129(2), e2023JG007702. https://doi.org/10.1029/2023JG007702
8. Oikawa, P. Y., Sihi, D., Forbrich, I., Fluet‐Chouinard, E., Najarro, M., Thomas, O., ... & Holmquist, J. (2024). A new coupled biogeochemical modeling approach provides accurate predictions of methane and carbon dioxide fluxes across diverse tidal wetlands. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 129(10), e2023JG007943.  https://doi.org/10.1029/2023JG007943
9. Noh, N. J., Renchon, A. A., Knauer, J., Haverd, V., Li, J., Griebel, A., ... & Pendall, E. (2024). Reconciling top‐down and bottom‐up estimates of ecosystem respiration in a mature eucalypt forest. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 129(10), e2024JG008064.  https://doi.org/10.1029/2024JG008064
10. Sakin, E., Yanardağ, İ. H., Ramazanoglu, E., Dari, B., & Sihi, D. (2024). Biochar applications and enzyme activity, carbon dioxide emission, and carbon sequestration in a calcareous soil. Journal of Plant Nutrition, 47(16), 2645-2658. https://doi.org/10.1080/01904167.2024.2354215 
11. Jie Hu,  Alfred E. Hartemink,  Ankur R. Desai,  Philip A. Townsend,  Rose Z. Abramoff,  Zhe Zhu,  Debjani Sihi,  Jingyi Huang (2023). A Continental-scale estimate of soil organic carbon change at NEON sites and their environmental and edaphic controls. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 128, e2022JG006981. https://doi-org.proxy.library.emory.edu/10.1029/2022JG006981
1. Samantha R. Weintraub-Leff,  Steven J. Hall,  Matthew E. Craig,  Debjani Sihi,  Zhuonan Wang,  Stephen C. Hart (2023). Standardized data to improve understanding and modeling of soil nitrogen at continental scale. Earth's Future, 11, e2022EF003224. https://doi-org.proxy.library.emory.edu/10.1029/2022EF003224
2. Lacroix, E. M., Aeppli, M., Boye, K., Brodie, E., Fendorf, S., Keiluweit, M., ... & Sihi, D. (2023). Consider the Anoxic Microsite: Acknowledging and Appreciating Spatiotemporal Redox Heterogeneity in Soils and Sediments. ACS Earth and Space Chemistry, 7(9), 1592-1609. https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.3c00032
3. Balázs Péter Grosz, Amanda Matson, Klaus Butterbach-Bah, … Sihi et al. Modeling denitrification: can we report what we don’t know? AGU Advance, 2023. DOI: 10.1029/2023AV000990 
1. Bhaduri, D., Sihi, D., Bhowmik, A., Verma, B. C., Munda, S., and Dari, B., A Review on Effective Soil Health Bioindicators for Ecosystem Restoration and Sustainability. Frontiers in Microbiology, 2022, doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.938481  
2. Yuan, T., Chen, S., Zhang, Y., Ji, L., Dari, B., Sihi, D., Xu, D., Zhang, Z., Yan, Z., and Wang, X. Mechanism of increased soil phosphorus availability in a calcareous soil by ammonium polyphosphate, 2022. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-022-01650-z  
1. Sihi D, Dari B, Kuruvila AP, Jha G and Basu K (2022) Explainable Machine Learning Approach Quantified the Long-Term (1981–2015) Impact of Climate and Soil Properties on Yields of Major Agricultural Crops Across CONUS. Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 6:847892. doi: 10.3389/fsufs.2022.847892.
1. O'Connell, C. S., Anthony, T. L., Mayes, M. A., Pérez, T., Sihi, D., Silver, W., Utilizing novel field and data exploration methods to explore hot moments in high-frequency soil nitrous oxide emissions data: Opportunities and challenges. Frontiers in Forests and Global Change, 2022.
2. Sihi, D., Xu, X., Ortiz, M. S., O’Connell C., Silver, W., López-Lloreda, C., Brenner, J., Quinn, R., Phillips, J., Newman, B., and Mayes, M. A. Improved representations of methane emissions from wet tropical forest soils using a microbial functional group-based model coupled with a diffusivity module. Biogeosciences, 18, 1-18, 2021, DOI: https://doi.org/10.5194/bg-18-1-2021.
3. Jha, G., Sihi, D., Dari, B., and Nocco, M., Rapid and Inexpensive Assessment of Soil Total Iron Using NixPro Color Sensor. Agricultural & Environmental Letters, 6, e20050, 2021, DOI: 10.1002/ael2.20050.
4. Renchon, A. A., Drake, J. E., Macdonald, C. A., Sihi, D., Hinko-Najer, N., Arndt, S. K., Noh, N., Davidson, E. A., and Pendall, E. Contribution of soil CO2 efflux to seasonal and diurnal dynamics of ecosystem respiration in a dry sclerophyll forest, Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 126, e2020JG006221, 2021, DOI: 10.1029/2020JG006221.
5. Baatz, R., Hendricks-Franssen, H., Euskirchen, E., Sihi, D., Dietze, M., Van Looy, K., de Lannoy, G., Williams, M., Pauwels, V., Montzka, C., Mishra, U., Bogena, H., Adamescu, M., Fox, A., Görgen, K., Naz, B., and Vereecken, H. Reanalysis in Earth System Science: Towards Terrestrial Ecosystem Reanalysis. Reviews of Geophysics, 2021, DOI: 10.1029/2020RG000715.
6. Hollinger, D. Y., Davidson, E. A., Fraver, S., Richardson, A. D., Savage, K. E., Sihi, D., and Teets, A. F. Multi-Decadal Carbon Cycle Measurements at the Howland Forest AmeriFlux Site. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, e2021JG006276, 2021, DOI: 10.1029/2021JG006276.
7. Graham E. B., Averill, C., Bond-Lamberty, B., Knelman, J. E., Krause, S., Peralta, A. L., Shade, A., Peyton A. S., Cheng, S., Fanin, N., Freund, C., Garcia, P. E., Gibbons, S. M., Van Goethem, M. W., Guebila, M. B., Kemppinen, J., Nowicki, R., Pausas, J. G., Reed, S., Rocca, J., Sengupta, A., Sihi, D., Simonin, M., Słowiński, M., Spawn, S., Sutherland, I., Tonkin, J., Wisnoski, N., Zipper, S. C., and Contributor Consortium. Towards a unifying framework of disturbance ecology through crowdsourced science. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, 2021, DOI: 10.3389/fevo.2021.588940.  
8. McLennon, E., Dari, B., Jha, G., Sihi, D., and Vanaja, K., Targeting Regenerative Agriculture and Integrative Permaculture for Sustainable and Technology Driven Global Food Production and Security. Agronomy Journal, 2021, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/agj2.20814.
9. Jha, G., Kankarla, V., McLennon, E., Pal, S., Sihi, D., Dari, B., Diaz, D., and Nocco, M. Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in Integrated Crop-Livestock Systems: Environmental exposure and human health risks. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 2021, DOI:  https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph182312550.
10. Raj. A., Mandal, J., Golui, D., Sihi, D., Dari, B., Kumari, P. B., Ghosh, M., and Ganguly, P., Determining Suitable Extractant for Estimating Available Arsenic in Soil. Water, Air & Soil Pollution, 232, 247, 2021, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11270-021-05215-y.
11. Jha, G., Ulery, A., Lombard, K., VanLeeuwen, D., Brungard, C., Dari, B., and Sihi, D., Monitoring Total Heavy Metal(loid)s and Bioavailable Arsenic in Agricultural Soils of Animas Watershed, New Mexico (USA). Water, Air & Soil Pollution232, 308, 2021, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11270-021-05249-2
12. Nagy, RC, JK Balch, EK Bissell, ME Cattau, NF Glenn, BS Halpern, N Ilangakoon, B Johnson, MB Joseph, S Marconi, C O’Riordan, J Sanovia, TL Swetnam, WR Travis, LA Wasse, PL Zarnetske and 2019 NEON Science Summit Participants (including Sihi, D.; 118 authors). Harnessing the NEON Data Revolution to Advance Open Environmental Science with a Diverse and Data-Capable Community. Ecosphere, 2021, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/ecs2.3833.
13. Sihi, D., Davidson E. A., Savage K., and Dong Liang. Numerical representation of microsite production and consumption of trace gases in soil using frequency distributions, Global Change Biology, 26, 200-218, 2020. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.14855 (Invited contribution to the special issue for 25-year anniversary of GCB). 
14. Hawkins, L. R., Kumar, J., Luo, X., Sihi, D., and Zhou, S. Measuring, Monitoring, and Modeling Ecosystem Cycling, Eos, 101, 2020. DOI:  https://doi.org/10.1029/2020EO147717.
15. Jian, J., Gough, C. M., Sihi, D., Hopple, A., and Bond-Lamberty, B. Collar properties and measurement time confer minimal bias on annual soil respiration estimates, Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 125, e2020JG006066, 2020. DOI: 10.1029/2020JG006066. 
16. Bond-Lamberty, B., Christianson, D. S., Malhotra, A., Pennington, S. C., Sihi, D., …et al., (>90 co-authors). COSORE: A community database for continuous soil respiration and other soil-atmosphere greenhouse gas flux data, Global Change Biology, 2020, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.15353.
17. Sihi, D.*, Dari, B.*, Yan, Z., Sharma, D. K., Pathak, H., Sharma, O. P., and Nain, L. Assessment of Water Quality in Indo-Gangetic Plain of South-Eastern Asia under Organic vs. Conventional Rice Farming. Water, 12, 960, 2020, DOI: https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4441/12/4/960 (* indicates equal contribution).
18. Loomis, G., Dari, B., Rogers, C. W., and Sihi, D. Evaluation of residue management practices on barley residue decomposition. PLOS ONE, 15, e0232896, 2020, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0232896.  
19. Sihi, D., Inglett, P. W., and Inglett, K. S., Warming rate drives microbial nutrient demand and enzyme expression during peat decomposition. Geoderma, 336, 12-21, 2019, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2018.08.027.  
20. Buchkowski, R., Shaw, A., Sihi, D., Smith, G. R., and Keiser, A. Constraining carbon and nutrient flows in soil with ecological stoichiometry, Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, 7:382, 2019, DOI:10.3389/fevo.2019.00382.
21. Weintraub, S., Flores, L., Weider, W., Sihi, D., Cagnar, C., Gonçalves, D., Young, M., Li L., Chuck, A., Mark, S., Yaniv, O., Baatz, R., Sullivan, P., and Groffman, P. M. Leveraging environmental research and observation networks to advance soil carbon science. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 124, 1047-1055, 2019, DOI: 10.1029/2018JG004956.
22. Sihi, D., Davidson, E. A., Min Chen, Savage, K., Richardson, A. D., Keenan, T. F., and Hollinger, D.Y.  Merging a Mechanistic Enzymatic Model of Temperature, Moisture, and Substrate Supply Effects on Soil Respiration into an Ecosystem Model in Two AmeriFlux sites of Northeastern USA. Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, 252, 155-166, 2018, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agrformet.2018.01.026 (‘Celebrating the 20th anniversary of the AmeriFlux network' Special Issue).
23. Sihi, D., Inglett, P. W., Gerber, S., and Inglett K. S. Rate of warming affects temperature sensitivity of anaerobic peat decomposition and greenhouse gas production. Global Change Biology, 24:e259–e274, 2018, DOI:10.1111/gcb.13839.
24. Malhotra, A., Sihi, D., and Iversen C. M. The fate of root carbon in soil: data and model gaps, Eos, 99, 2018, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1029/2018EO112593.
25. Yan Z., Chen S., Dari B, Sihi, D., Chen Q. Phosphorus transformation response to soil properties changes induced by manure application in a calcareous soil. Geoderma, 322, 163-171, 2018, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2018.02.035.
26. Dari B and Sihi, D. A Decadal Overview of Biochar Research in Agriculture. Journal of Agricultural Physics, 18(1), 14-20, 2018.
27. Sihi, D., Dari, B., Sharma, D. K., Pathak, H., Nain, L., and Sharma, O. P. Evaluation of soil health in organic vs. conventional farming of basmati rice in North India. Journal of plant nutrition and soil science, 180, 389-406, 2017, DOI: 10.1002/jpln.201700128.
28. Dari B, Sihi, D., S K Bal., and Kunwar S. Performance of Direct Seeded Rice under Various Dates of Sowing and Irrigation Regimes in Semiarid India, Paddy and Water Environment, 2017, DOI: 10.1007/s10333-016-0557-8. 
29. Sihi, D., Gerber, S., Inglett, P. W., and Inglett K. S. Comparing models of microbial-substrate interactions and their response to warming. Biogeosciences, 13, 1733-1752, 2016, DOI:10.5194/bg-13-1-2016.
30. Sihi, D., Inglett, P. W., and Inglett K. S. Carbon quality and nutrient status drive the temperature sensitivity of organic matter decomposition in subtropical peat soils. Biogeochemistry, 131, 103-119, 2016, DOI: 10.1007/s10533-016-0267-8.
31. Sihi, D., Sharma, D. K., Pathak, H., Singh, Y. V., Sharma, O. P., Nain, L., Chaudhary, A. and Dari, B. Effect of organic farming on productivity and quality of basmati rice. Oryza-An International Journal of Rice, 2012, 49(1), 24-29.  

​​White Paper

1. Sihi, D. Improving predictability of methane emissions from terrestrial ecosystems and terrestrial-aquatic interfaces through machine learning approaches. AI4CH4 workshop, Earth and Environmental System Science Division, Office of Biological and Environmental Research, Department of Energy. AI4CH420 (available at https://www.ai4esp.org/related/)
2.	Sihi, D., Basu, K., and Singh, K. Improved Understanding of Coupled Water and Carbon Cycle Processes through Machine Learning Approaches. Artificial Intelligence for Earth System Predictability, Earth and Environmental System Science Division, Office of Biological and Environmental Research, Department of Energy. DOI: 10.2172/1769721

Academy Report
1.	Casadevall, A., Burnha, C-A, Cassell, G. H., Enquist, L., Estes, M., Golden, S., Lennon, J., Monack, D., Murray, B. E., Weiss, S., Weissfeld, A. D., Williams, H. N., Tiedje, J. M., Bruns, M. A., Casadevall, A., Davidson, E., Silver, P., Colwell, R. R., Criddle, C., Donohue, T., Eloe-Fadrosh, E., Falkowski, P., Hellweger, F., Hoehler, T. M., Jansson, J. K., Jones, A., Jiang, S., Karl, D., King, G. M., Lipp, E. K., Lynch, M., Martiny, J. B. H., Machlis, G. E., McFall-Ngai, M., McGovern, V., Rich, V., Sihi, D. , Spear, J. R., Verstraete, W., Jutla, A., and Zhou, J. (Colloquium participants are listed alphabetically) Microbes and Climate Change – Science, People & Impacts. https://asm.org/Reports/Microbes-Climate-Change-Science,-People,-Impacts, American Academy of Microbiology, American Society of Microbiology, 2022.


